1. Introduction

A intal is a nonegative integer of arbitary length. This is a library which can perform calculations on these arbitary length integers. This library is required as C/C++ only supports integer upto 20 digits long on a 64-bit machine. 
Intal is represented as a string of decimal digits, that are stored in big-endian style.
One major application of such library is in Cryptography, for generating and operating on huge numbers, numbers which can't be stored in the typical integer data types C/C++ provide.

2. Approach

The integer is represented as a string of decimal digits, as mentioned before.
The basic pen-paper method to add, subtract, multiply is implemented.
Care is taken to avoid all the edge cases.

For the modulas functions a log(n) approach is used, instead of just repeated subtractingintal2 from intal1, intal2=intal2*2 is subtracted. intal2 is reset back to original if intal2 is greater than intal1 but intal1 is still greater than the original intal2.
This is better than repeated subtraction but it can be improved.

For power, it is implemented a utilizing simple math trick to make it faster.

For GCD, Euclid's theorem is implemented. The speed of this function is directly dependant on the mod function. Which like I mentioned before can be improved.

For bincoeff, a modified verison of pascal's triangle is implemented.

For sort, a simple quicksort algorithim is implemented.

For binary search, the iterative method is implemented.

The libray is compiled and tested with GCC-8.3 on Debian 10.
Valgrind was used to make sure that there isn't any memory leaks.

3. Future Work

If I didn't have any restricitons on implementing the library, I would have stored the intal in the form of int*, instead of char*. This will improve speed up a lot as, instead of operating on single digit at a time, we could operate on a block of digits.

To increase the speed of multiplication, I would implement Karatsuba. I didn't implement Karatsuba in this library, because I have had implemented it for intal of type char* before, but it actually turned out to be slower than the pen-paper method. If the intal is stored as int*, the speed up would be of the charts.

I would also like to implement a fast division algorithm like Newton–Raphson method. Implementing this would also increase the speed up for mod, gcd and binary coefficient. So this would be a great addition to the library. 



